                     Fgvm README
		     ===========

 (Franklins' and Gregs' VM / ForeGround Virtual Machine )

What is it?
-----------

Fgvm is a mechanism for partitioning a Unix system into multiple semi-
independant systems.  It is based around Unix's chroot() system call,
which causes a process to be trapped into a small "corner" of the
filesystem,  which can be constructed to look like a full system, if
desired,  or a stripped down system (such as one gets for anonymous
ftp).

Fgvm consists of:  
 - some small programs for copying a "toplevel" into a new volume
 group 
 - some init scripts which mount filesystems and alias IP addresses and
 start up some daemons
 - some utilities for monitoring the status of partitions
 - some utilities for system admin on those partitions.



What is it not?
---------------

It is not a mechanism for running multiple different operating systems
on the one machine like VMware or IBM VM.  



What platforms does it run on?
------------------------------

Currently,  only HP-UX 11.0 64-bit.  It should be just a matter of
a couple of recompiles to get it working on HP-UX 11.0 32-bit,  and
I don't envisage any trouble getting it going on HP-UX 10.X.  

Only a few things are HP-specific though.  First is the mechanism
used for determining what a processes' root directory is.  HP has
a pstat_getproc system call which is used for this purpose.  Systems
that have a /proc filesystem would be totally different,  but they
would be pretty straightforward to get working.

The other is that in the initial setup,  there is some code that
creates extra partitions.  This uses LVM logical volumes at the moment.
This would be pretty easy to translate to (say) Tru64 or AIX, but
a bit more problematic for (say) FreeBSD.  Still,  it's not fundamental,
so it can probably be worked around.

Any ideas, or patches to port to another OS would be greatly appreciated.



Status
------

It's pretty buggy.  Quite a few things don't work,  such as bdf (some
sort of HP bug);  usermod, useradd and userdel have issues;  software
distributor software can't be uninstalled; still some flakiness in
some scripts.

Having said that,  it has worked successfully as a test and development
environment running Oracle and Remedy for several months.

History
-------

Fgvm began as an attempt by Franklins to save buying some more computers.
They had a fairly powerful HP-UX machine which they wanted to partition
up into multiple "virtual machines",  like VM does for IBM S/390.  Craig
employed Greg for a week to work on it.  As usual,  the project went
overtime (by 2 days),  and was completed in May 1999.  In July 1999 it
was released under GPL.


Credits
-------

Greg Baker (greg.baker@aptec.net.au) - wrote most of the code
Craig Ratcliffe (ratcliffec@franklins.com.au) - who found the funds
Dan Huang (huangd@franklins.com.au) - found several bugs
Navin Jain (jainn@franklins.com.au) - who had to administer it in real life
Franklins - for having an enlightened attitude towards in-house software
            development,  particularly for a large product such as this.

